DevOps Engineer Technical Assessment

Objective: Setup an infrastructure in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) using Terraform.

Expected Duration: 2 hours

Required Software:

Terraform (v1.0.8 or newer)
Google Cloud SDK

Assessment Setup:

You need to have a GCP account ready and properly configured for this task. Please ensure that you have appropriate rights to create and manage resources in GCP.

Tasks:

Your task is to create a GCP infrastructure for a sample web application. You should use Terraform scripts for creating the following resources:

Create a Google Compute Engine instance.

1.1. The instance should be of type e2-medium and should use the latest Debian image.

1.2. The instance should be tagged as web.

1.3. The instance should be created in the us-central1 region and us-central1-c zone.

1.4. Write a startup script that installs Nginx on the instance upon boot.

Create a Google Cloud Storage bucket.

2.1. The bucket should be named <yourname>-test-bucket.

2.2. The bucket should be in the us-central1 region.

2.3. The bucket should be set to Multi-Regional storage class.

Create a Google Cloud SQL instance.

3.1. The Cloud SQL instance should be of type db-f1-micro and should run PostgreSQL.

3.2. The Cloud SQL instance should be in the us-central1 region.

3.3. The database instance should be set with a randomly generated password.

Create a Google VPC Network with a subnet.

4.1. The VPC should have auto-create subnets disabled and should create a custom subnet.

4.2. The subnet should be in the us-central1 region and should use the IP range 10.0.0.0/20.

Setup Cloud NAT for the Google VPC Network.

5.1. The Cloud NAT should allow the instances in the subnet to connect to the internet.

Create Firewall rules to allow HTTP and HTTPS traffic.

6.1. Only allow incoming connections on ports 80 and 443 from any IP (0.0.0.0/0) to the tagged instances (web).

Deliverables:

Terraform scripts (.tf files) for setting up the entire infrastructure as described above.

A README.md file explaining:

2.1. The architecture of the infrastructure you set up.

2.2. Instructions on how to run the Terraform scripts.

A screenshot of the GCP dashboard showing the created resources.

A screenshot showing the result of the terraform plan and terraform apply commands.

A document (can be part of README.md) with answers to the following questions:

5.1. Explain how you structured your Terraform scripts and why?

5.2. How would you monitor these created resources?

5.3. If given more time, what improvements or additional features would you add to this infrastructure?

Evaluation Criteria:

Completeness of the tasks.
Correctness and quality of the Terraform scripts.
The simplicity and readability of the code.
The quality of the documentation (README.md and additional document with answers).
Thought process and the proposed improvements (from the answers document).

Good luck!